This page contains proposed MapCSS eval() syntax.

== Data types ==

EIAS: ''Everything is a string''.

When used in different contexts, it may be considered as:
* ''string''
: String is enclosed in '''"'''quotation marks'''"'''. It can be:
:* concatenated using '''.''' operator.
:* checked for being a number using '''num()''' function. In case it can't be converted, "" (empty string) is returned.
:* converted to a number using '''metric()''' or '''zmetric()''' function. These functions should return (heuristically?) parsed width/height in map units. E.g. on "2 meters in 1 pixel" scale '''metric("3m")''' should return 1.5. '''zmetric()''' does the same for elevations. In the case it can't be converted, "" (empty string) should be returned.
* ''number''. May be enclosed in '''"'''quotation marks'''"'''. 
: Can be:
:* converted to string using '''str()''' function (actually does nothing, as any number is a string)
:* multiplied/divided/substracted/added using usual '''*''', '''/''', '''-''', '''+'''
:* square-rooted using '''sqrt()'''
:* integer part is returned using '''int()''' (ceil/floor/round? - no, what it says – integer part) function
: Consequences:
:* "2" + 4 == 6;
:* "2" == 2;
:* But:
:*: 2/0 == "";
* ''none'' / "" (empty string)
:* ''none'' is a constant equal to empty string
:* in any number operation on ''none'', it's equal to 0.
:* if ''none'' is the final evaluation result, it's considered that a property isn't applied at all.
: Consequences:
:* 2."" == 2;
:* 2+"" == 2;
:* 2/"" == "";
:* ''none'' == "";
* ''boolean''
:* expression is considered "false" if it equals to "0", "no", "false" or "" (empty string);
:* expression is considered "true" otherwise.
:* can be turned to a canonical form using '''boolean()''' function
:* canonical form for "true" is "true", canonical form for "false" is "false"
: Consequences:
:* boolean("yes") == boolean("true")

== Operations ==

* Comparison operators: '''==''', '''<>''', '''!=''', '''<''', '''>''', '''<=''', '''>='''. Perform canonization for numbers prior to comparison, so "2" == "02". Implicit canonization doesn't convert numeric value to boolean and vice versa, however.
* String comparison operators: '''eq''', '''ne''': "2" ne "02", "2" eq "2".

== Built-in functions ==
* '''tag('''key''':'''''string''''')'''
: returns value of a tag, described by key. In the case there's no such tag, returns ''none''
* '''prop('''key''':'''''string''''')'''
: returns value of a property, described by key. In the case there's no such property, returns ''none''
* '''cond('''expr''', '''if''', '''else''')'''
: returns ''if'' if ''expr'' is true, ''else'' otherwise.
* '''any('''k1''', '''k2''', ...)'''
: returns first ''k'' that's not ''none''
* '''max('''x1''', '''x2''', ...)'''
: returns maximum
* '''min('''x1''', '''x2''', ...)'''
: returns minimum
